♪ [music] ♪
All right. We're going to cool it on the
stores part, and we're going to move into
actually working with users on our
application. So we're going to be able to
allow users to sign up, and everyone is
going to have an account.
You can log in and register, and log out,
and create a store that's associated with
you, and comment on other stores. That
comment will be associated for you,
and all of that good stuff. You'll be able
to only edit a store that exists to you.
So in order to get up and going with that,
we first need this login form,
and then we're going to go forward and
start creating all of the pieces to log
in. So click on your Log In. It's got a
404, because we don't have a route for
that. So let's open up our index.js file
and go all the way to the bottom,
and we'll say, "router.get('/login'".
When that happens, we are going to make a
new controller, called the "User
controller" and we're going to just say,
"loginForm". Now, why are we making a new
controller? Well, generally,
you have one controller for every kind of
specific area of your website.
For this, we're going to have a User
controller, which is going to take care of
all of our signup and registration
validation, and logging out,
and all the forms, password reset, and
what not. Then, we're going to have an
Authentication controller, which will deal
with all of the heavy lifting for logging
people in, making sure they're logged in,
making sure that they own the correct
store, etc., etc. So it doesn't really
matter where they go in the controller.
But it's just a nice way to chunk things
up and keep them with like code.
So we're going to create a User
controller. So we're going to go into our
controllers, make a new file, and call it
"userController.js".
Then, we're going to import Mongoose
because that's what we need.
So I'll say, "const mongoose =
require('mongoose')" and we'll say,
"exports."... What did we look for? Login
form. "loginForm = (req,res)".
This one doesn't need to be async.
That's all we're going to be doing is
res.render out the login form, and the
title is going to be "Login Form," or just
"Login," probably. Good. Now, finally, if
we try to run this, we're going to get a
bit of an error. You see that my ESLint is
highlighting it and it's telling me that
"User controller is not to find." Why? If
we go to the top of our routes,
we're importing Store controller. But we
have to duplicate that and change out
"Store" with "User." So we have the Store
controller is coming from that file.
The User controller is coming from this
file. So now, we give that a refresh and
we log in. It should tell us that we don't
have a login Pug file yet.
There we go. "Failed to lookup view
'login' in views directory." So we don't
have that view yet. We'll go into Views,
New File, Login.pug, and we'll do our
whole song and dance, "extends layout",
"block content", "h2= title".
Let's try that. Actually, we'll do
".inner", and then a title inside of that.
Now, we have a login showing up, and we
need to build the actual login form.
Now, rather than just do the login form
right in login.pug, I rather put it in a
mixin, so that I can include that login
form anywhere I want. Whether it's in a
popup or another piece of the website, I
can have it in a nice,
little partial. So we're going to go to
Mixins. Create a new file called
"_loginForm.pug". I'll say, "mixin
loginForm()" and nothing goes inside of
those parenthesis because it doesn't take
any arguments. I'll say,
"form" with a class of "form". The reason
we have a class of "form" is so that CSS
will kick in. The action is going to be
"/login", and the method is going to be
equal to "POST". Then, we'll have an h2
inside of that that says "login".
We'll have a label for "email". We'll have
an input type of "email",
a name of "email", and then we'll have an
input type of "password",
name of "password". We'll have an
input.button, which has a type of
"submit", and then the value is going to
be "Log In". Woo. All right.
So I made a nice, little mixin there. We
can go back to our login.pug and import
that mixin. Then, we can use our mixin,
"loginForm()". Let's see what that does
for us, give it a refresh, and now we have
a login from... Oh,
one thing we forgot was the actual email
address and password.
We forgot our "label for password". There
we go. Login, email address,
and password. We go up to our login.pug,
where we're using it.
Actually, we don't need this h2 either.
That's just for the actual title bar.
We've got our login page rendering. Good.
Now, comes the harder part.
When somebody fills this in,
"wesbos@gmail.com", and I'm going to have
my password as "wes", because that's
super-strong, and when we click Login,
that data gets posted to the same route.
So much like when we added a store and we
posted the data to /add, we also need to
now create a user and save it to the
database. So how do we create a user? We
need a new model. Right?
Remember models is where our data gets
stored, and we've already just done
store.js? Let's make a new one. Call it
"user.js", and we'll start from scratch,
"const mongoose = require('mongoose')".
Then, we also need this schema.
Another thing we have to do is say,
"mongoose. Promise = global.
Promise". Again, we shouldn't have to do
that. But there's a bug currently in the
Mongoose package that will sort of give
you false positives in your console if you
don't do that. It'll tell you that they've
deprecated their own internal promise
library. Because we've done it in
start.js, this is the only time we should
be telling it that we need to use ES6
promises. But if we don't do it in each of
our models, it does this cranky complaint.
Even though it doesn't make any
difference, that just suppresses the error
in our terminal if you ever see that.
So we've got Mongoose. We've got our
schema pulling in. A couple of other
things that we need real quick is just a
few dependencies, and I will explain them
as we start to use them. So I'll say,
"const md5 = require('md5')".
We need a package called "Validator". We
need something called a
"mongodbErrorHandler" and again I'll
explain all of this as we need it.
Finally, something called
"passportLocalMongoose", which is going to
help us easily create user accounts
without doing a whole lot of boilerplate
code, "passport-local-mongoose". Woo.
Okay. Again, don't worry too much about
what these are. We will go into them in
just a second. So the first thing that we
need to do is actually make our model.
Again, our model is what our data is going
to look like. So I'll say, "const
userSchema = new Schema". That is going to
take an object, and then right away we
should just go ahead and export that.
So, "module.exports = mongoose.model".
We're going to call this "User",
and we're going to give it the User Schema
that we've defined.
Again, we use module.exports there, and
not just exports.something,
because this is the main thing that will
be exported from this file.
When you require this file, that's the
thing that you're getting out of the file
without specifying a sub-property. So we
have our schema, and there are five things
that are going to go on our schema. But
for now, we really just need email and we
also need the name of the actual person.
So let's go through each of these.
"Email" is going to be a type of string.
It's going to be a unique that's "true",
and that's really important, because you
don't want people signing up for multiple
accounts with the same email address. If
someone tries to sign up with an email
account that already exists, you should
tell them, "Hey, you can't do that.
That email address already exists." Then,
you want to say "lowercase: true" and this
is something I wish I knew earlier. When I
first made the thing that built my
courses, I was having all kinds of
trouble, because every single place that I
needed to use someone's email, I needed to
make sure that I lowercased it.
Because if somebody would sign in or sign
up, or buy a course,
or do anything with an uppercase email, or
even just a capital somewhere in there,
it would then not be the same email as the
lowercase version that I had on file.
So what you can do is you can say,
"lowercase: true" and that will always
save them in your database as lowercase.
Then, we also use a middleware that
whenever somebody submits an email
address, it's always going to just
automatically lowercase itself. So you
don't have to worry about case in any of
these. It's nice to take that off your
plate. The next one is trim.
You want it to be "true", because people
sign in with all kinds of...
Like I see all kinds of people signing in
with emails like this,
"gmail.com", and then they have all kinds
of spaces on it. So if we put trim on it,
that'll take off any spaces on either end.
Next up, we want validate,
and what we want to do is do custom
validation on this email address to make
sure that this is a proper validation. The
way that we do that is you pass it an
array. The first thing is how to validate
it, and the second thing is the error
message if it fails validation. So we have
this package here called "Validator" and
this is a really good validation package
for Node.js. All we need to do is just
take the validator and say, "isEmal" and
that will just make sure that it is a
valid email address based on having an @
and all that good stuff inside of it.
Then, the second thing is just an error
message. So it's, "Invalid Email Address".
If somebody tries to sign up with an
invalid email address, this message is
going to show to them. Now, we're also
going to implement client-side checks with
the input type equals email. So they
almost will never see this error message,
because we'll catch it in the browser. But
if for whatever reason,
somebody is on an older browser that
doesn't haven't an input type of email or
somebody maliciously turns it off, we need
to make sure that we are also checking on
the server side, and that people aren't
signing up with invalid email addresses.
Next, we want it to be required, which is
generally true. Or if,
for us, we're going to say, "Please supply
an email address." So if someone forgets
to sign up and they bypass our client-side
validation, it's going to tell them that.
Next up, we have our name. Make sure you
put a comma there, and our name is going
to be type of "string", and it's going to
be required as "Please supply a name" and
it's going to say, "trim: true". That one
is a lot simpler than the other one.
This one has a lot of things to think
about when you have an email address.
So now, we're able to create new users
given that they have an email address and
a name. Now, you might be asking, "Well,
don't they need a password field?" That's
exactly true. We need to be able to store
a password in the database.
Or actually, we don't want to store the
password itself. We want to store what's
called the "hash" of that password. To do
that, we're going to be using a package
called Passport.js. Passport.js is a
middleware for Node.js, and it can be used
with any Node.js framework that has
built-in middleware. What it does is,
essentially, it takes away a lot of the
heavy lifting that comes along with
managing sessions or creating tokens, or
logging people in, logging people out,
being able to interface with many of the
popular login providers,
like LinkedIn, or Google, or Twitter, or
Facebook. It's just a fantastic...
It's like the de facto library that you
use if you need to do any sort of
authentication inside of Password.js. It's
sort of like a base framework,
and then they have these things called
"Strategies," which allow you to do
everything from doing things like
password-auth0 Twitter. You can log in.
We're going to use username and password,
which is called a "Local Strategy."
There's all kinds of different strategies
that you can have and be implemented in
here. It's pretty neat and it takes a lot
of the heavy lifting off our plate.
So in order to do that, we're not going to
specify a password or a hash,
or anything field in here. We're just
going to be using this Passport Local
Mongoose library that we imported, and it
will take care of adding the additional
fields to our schema, as well as adding
the additional methods to create our new
logins. So we'll go down here, and we'll
take our User Schema,
and we're going to just add the plugin
that's called "Passport Local Mongoose".
Then, we just need to pass it one option
that says, "usernameField" that's going to
be the email field. So essentially what we
say is, "Here's our schema,
email name. Can you please add all the
methods and all of the fields that are
needed for us to add authentication to our
schema? By the way,
I want to use "email" as our login field."
You know, some services allow you to login
with a username or they login with an
email address? In this case,
we're going to be using the email address
to log the people in.
Next up, we also need to use a second
plugin called "MongoDB Error Handler." So
"userSchema.plugin" and this is what we
imported right here,
"mongodbErrorHandler". Essentially, what
that will do is, this validation,
it will give us good errors. But when you
have a unique of "true",
it actually doesn't give us very nice
errors. It sort of gives us an ugly error
that comes along with MongoDB, and it has
a code in it. It's just not something that
you actually want to show to your user. So
by having this plugin,
what it will do is it will change those
errors from the ugly error into the nice
version [inaudible]. If you're
interested in learning more about this,
you just go to Mongoose Error Handler.
Give it a quick search.
Look it up on... There we go. So what the
error will say is, "1111000-duplicate
key." That's not great for your user to
see. What this will allow us to do is it
will give us much nicer error messages in
there. So really happy with that.
Other than that, it looks like we are in
pretty good shape. Let's move on to
posting our data to our login. Now, this
login form isn't much use to us.
We actually need the register form as
well, so that we can use our login form
once we're actually registered. So let's
set up our route for that as well.
We'll go back to our index.js,
"router.get('/register'," and that's going
to be "userController.registerForm)".
Then, we'll go over to our User
controller. We'll have
"exports.registerForm" and we're going to
just quickly render out the Register file,
and that's going to have a title of
"Register". Then, we'll go back to our
views. Make a new file called
"register.pug". Extend the layout. Now,
inside of here, we could shell it off to a
mixin if we do want our register form to
pop up in multiple places.
I'm going to keep in line just for the
sake of not having too many files and
confusing you. But totally doable in a
mixin, just as we've done the other one.
So I'll just say "form" with class of
"form". The action is going to be "post it
to register". Of course, the method is
"POST". Then, inside of that,
we'll have "h2 Register". We'll have a
label for our name. [inaudible]
an input for our "name" equals "name".
We'll have an input...
I always forget to put the words in the
name. There we go. Then,
we'll have a label for "email". We'll have
an input type of "email".
That's going to tell us that we need it.
That's going to make sure that it is a
valid email before we sign up, and the
name is going to be "email" and I'm going
to also make it required. Same with the
name. We're going to make that required.
"Email", then we're going to make two
fields for "password". So say,
"label(for="password")", input type,
"password", name equals "password".
Then, we'll just duplicate that, and this
is going to be "confirm-password".
This is going to be "password-confirm".
Confirm password as text there.
Good. Finally, I guess we need a Submit
button as well. Input type of "submit",
value equals "register". Good. Give this a
refresh now. Do we have that "register"?
Oh, "Failed to lookup 'register' in the
views directory." What did we do wrong?
We put a "register", R-E-G-I-S-T-E-R.
"Reigster"? "Regis Philmanster," no.
That's not what we want. So we want to go
back to our User controller.
We want to register that actual... There
we go. Name, email, password,
confirm password, and register. Actually,
we'll pop a class of "button" on our
Register button, just so it looks a little
bit nicer. Beautiful.
Okay. So we have all of our fields set up,
and it's going to be actually a couple
steps once we actually post to /register.
Let's go back to our routes here,
and we have our Get Register, be need the
route for when it's posted to Register.
There's kind of a couple things that need
to happen as soon as we hit that
registration. First, we need to..and
we'll write this, here.
One, we need to validate the registration
data. Two, we need to register the user.
Three, we need to log them in, once
they've actually done the registration.
First, we actually need to validate the
data that the person is registering with.
We try to do as much validation as
possible on our model. But sometimes
there's additional checks that need to
happen, before you even start to send the
data over to the database. In that case,
you can also do validation right inside of
your actual controller. For that, we're
going to go into our User Controller,
and we're going to make a middleware,
which is going to do a bunch of checks to
make sure that we've done everything
correctly. So make a middleware called
"validateRegister", and that is going to
take a req, res, and the next.
We pass "next" because it's going to be
middleware. If everything passes Register,
we're just going to pass it along to the
next person in line. So the first thing
that we want to do is sanitize their name,
and make sure that they're not trying to
sign up with any sort of script tags in
it. So we'll say,
"req.sanitizeBody('name')". Now, hold on.
Where did this come from?
Is that like an Express thing? Is that
built in? How come I just pulled that out
of nowhere and now I'm just using this
function called "sanitizeBody"?
Well, if we open up our app.js, remember I
said, "This is a lot of stuff,
but we'll come back to this," every single
time that we have? Remember we imported
Express-Validator, and then later on we
used it? Where did we use it?
Here we go, "app.use(expressValidator())",
what this does is it applies a bunch of
validation methods to every single
request. Then, whenever you have a
request, you can just call the different
validation methods that live on top of it,
without having to import the library or
anything. They're sort of just always
there for us. Additionally, it does a
whole bunch of stuff. Let's just take a
quick look at the Express-Validator at
GitHub here. What it will do is,
whenever you have somebody send data to a
URL, you can check the body,
you can check the params, and you can
check the query. So body is things posted
via a form. Params are things that come in
the URL. Query are things that come also
in the URL, but after that question mark
that you have. So you can check that they
all are in the format that you're looking
for, or you can convert them,
or you can do some sanitization, whatever
it is that you need to do.
So before you actually work with your
data, often, you need to do some
sanitizing, a little massaging, a little
bit of working with your data.
That's exactly what this does for us. So
we are sanitizing the body,
the name. So "req.body.name", it's
sanitizing that property on there.
Then, we are going to check that somebody
actually supplied a name,
because we make sure that it's required
here, but we're going to also make sure
that it's required here. So we'll just
say, "req.checkBody" for a "name" property
that "You must supply a name!", and then
you've got to check that it is not empty.
Then, we also want to check for the email.
So, "req.checkBody",
we're going to check that the "email"
property and, "That email is not valid".
Then, you want to say, "isEmail". You see
how we're doing all of our checks?
You also could say, ".notEmpty" and
"isEmail". So you chain these on and on.
So you can do multiple checks in one go.
In our case, we just need to check for
email, because if it is not there it will
fail that test as well.
Then, we also want to normalize the email
address. So we'll say,
"req.sanitizeBody". I'm going to take the
email. There's a method called
".normalizeEmail". What this will do is
there's this thing when you have people
sign up to your account, sometimes they'll
use "Wesbos@gmail.com".
Sometimes if they're in the UK, they'll
use "wesbos@googlemail.com".
Sometimes they'll use "wes.bos@gmail.com",
which is the same thing as Gmail.
So Gmail lets you put dots anywhere in
your Gmail one, and that's technically
different ones. You can do
"wesbos+test@gmail.com". So there's all
these variations on the email, as well as
you can do capitals and what not.
So with all these different variations,
what happens is, A, either people can be
malicious and sign up for multiple
accounts. I don't do that, because I know
that people use this for very good
reasons. But also, people just forget what
email address they possibly used. So a lot
of times, people are using these modifiers
to sign up for my website, and then they
email me being like, "Hey,
Wes. I forgot which email address I used
to sign up. Can you tell me?" So what you
can do is you can allow people to sign up
with any of these email addresses,
and this normalizeEmail function is just
going to always normalize it down to
simply "wesbos@gmail.com". You can turn
all of these different features on and
off. Different email providers, some Yahoo
and some Microsoft ones have similar
quirks about them. But it just starts to
cut down either on abuse,
or just general confusion and angry users.
So we're going to go into our
normalizeEmail here. There's a couple of
properties that we want to say,
"remove_dots", and that will be "false",
just because sometimes you do want to have
multiple email addresses for the same
service. So that is allowed to do that.
We're going to say, "remove_extension",
because dots and extension by default are
on by "true". So we say,
"remove_extension: false", and then,
"gmail_remove_subaddress" and that is also
going to be "false".
So if you want to know what all these
possible ones are, all you have to do is
go to Express-Validator, look for this
normalizeEmail function here...
Actually, if you do not find it, it's
because you have to just go to Validator,
because Express-Validator just sits on top
of this Validator package that we were
using earlier, and there we go,
"normalizeEmail" all lowercase,
"gmail lowercase", "gmail_remove_dots",
"gmail_remove_subaddress",
"outlook". There's all kinds of stuff that
will normalizeEmail,
and you make sure that you have those
turned on and off, depending on what your
preferences are for your application. So
we're sanitizing the body there.
Next up, we want to check that the
password cannot be blank, "req.checkBody",
and we're going to check that the
password... I'll say, "password cannot be
blank," "notEmpty". Again, these probably
won't ever trip. But if somebody does turn
off the actual validation right here...
Because if I try to submit this,
you see how it's triggering the HTML5 one?
But somebody could easily come along and
take the required attribute off of these
fields, and then submit it.
So we do need to make sure that we're
doing a server-side check.
We'll check the body again that the
password-confirm is also not blank,
"Confirmed Password cannot be blank!"
Empty." Then, we want to check that they
are the same. So,
"req.checkBody('password-confirm',".
"Oops! Your passwords do not match')".
Then, we're going to say,
"equals". So we want to make sure that the
password confirmed is equal to
req.body.password. Right? So woo. That's a
lot of checks that we have in place there.
But it's the simplest way to do validation
with Express-Validator.
You just build a nice, little middleware
that will take care of it.
Then, by the time we actually get to
registering, we know that all the data is
going to be super, super-clean. Now, what
we've got to do is we've got to get those
validation errors. So I'll say, "const
errors = req.validationErrors()".
Calling this method, it will actually
check all of these methods here,
and put them into an Errors object. Then,
we can just simply check,
"If there are errors then," and in this
case we're not going to pass it on to any
sort of error-handling middleware. We
actually want to handle the error
ourselves here. This is a good example of
actually handling the error yourself,
rather than passing it along to any sort
of middleware. So if that is true,
we'll say, "req.flash('error',". So we'll
say, "errors.map". We'll take the error,
and we'll return the error.msg. What this
will do is that the errors here will
contain an array of objects, including the
error message, as well as which field
actually had an error. So you could also
use this to highlight which fields has an
error. But in our case, we're not all that
concerned. Then, finally,
if something went wrong, what should we
do? Well, we should just go back and
re-render this register form. But we don't
want to totally clear the form.
How much do you hate that, when you go to
a website and you have a validation error,
and then it just totally clears your
entire form? That's not something that we
want to do to our users. So say,
"res.render('register'," and the title is
going to be "Register". The body is going
to be "req.body". Right?
We're going to take the body and just send
it right back to the user,
so that we can prepopulate these inputs
once more. Then, we also need to send the
flashes along. The reason why is because,
normally the flashes get passed along
because it's on the next request. But
because all of this validation and
rendering, the re-register is happening on
one single request,
we need to explicitly pass the flashes,
which looks like this,
"req.flash". So if you ever need them on
that request, you can just manually pass
them like that. Otherwise, the next time
they come around, they'll be passed to
your locals, no problem. I forgot an arrow
here, and we'll pop a semicolon here,
and let's actually hook up this
validateRegister method to our router.
Go back to index.js. Say, "When somebody
posts to /register, the first thing we're
going to do is
userController.validateRegister." So
that's really, "Let's actually make it
break," and then we'll go back to our
register.pug and make sure that you take
off these requires, just temporarily,
so we can actually make it break and see
what will happen. So let's go back here.
We'll go to our Register page. Name, I'm
going to do nothing and push Register.
Oh, I get an error, "req.validationErrors
is not a function." So one more time,
we'll go back here. Too many R's and this
needs an S. There we go.
"You must apply a name!", "That email is
not valid", "Passwords cannot be blank",
and "Confirmed passwords cannot be blank!"
Wow. So see? We did all the bad things and
now it's telling us what these possible
errors are. If I filled in some of them,
like "wes" and "wesbos@gmail.com", but I
did this as "wes" and this as "bos"...
Oh, what did we do there? We didn't do a
type of "password" on that.
Let's take a look. Oh, type of "password",
and then name of "password-confirm".
I was being a hotshot with my selectors
there earlier. So once we now submit this,
it says, "Oops! Your passwords do not
match". Why? Because the password-confirm
was not equal to the actual password. So
that is a first part of our middleware,
where we validate all other registration
data. I should say the last thing is down
here, if there is errors you've returned,
which will stop the function from running.
Otherwise, we're just going to call "next"
and say, "There were no errors." What
"next" will do is it will just call the
next piece of middleware down the line.
That is actually, "Now, let's register
them. Let's save them to the database."
That's exactly what we're going
to do in the next video.
♪ [music] ♪